README.md, before:

# Azure Region Naming Terraform Module from Build5Nines

Naming Microsoft Azure resources provisioned across multiple Azure Regions and Environment deployments is easier and more consistent with this Terraform module. It helps you:

- Normalize Azure region inputs (both display names like "East US" and programmatic names like "eastus").
- Generate a consistent location-aware name suffix (e.g., `{org}-{loc}-{env}` -> `contoso-eus-prod`).
- Use a comprehensive, data-driven map of Azure regions to abbreviations and canonical short names.
- Leverage the official Azure naming module while keeping your own opinionated suffix pattern.

This module is ideal for teams that want to set and adhere to a clear naming convention across Azure resources.

## What this module does

- Validates `var.location` against the up-to-date list of public Azure regions (both display and short names).
- Maps the region to a short, readable abbreviation (e.g., `eastus` -> `eus`) using a JSON lookup.
- Maps any input region (display or short) to the canonical programmatic name (e.g., `East US` -> `eastus`) using a JSON lookup.
- Builds a customizable location-aware suffix using `{org}`, `{loc}`, `{env}` placeholders.
- Passes that suffix into the Azure official naming module to generate a consistent `prefix` you can use on all resources.

## Why this helps with naming conventions

Consistent naming improves discoverability, governance, and automation. This module:

- Enforces consistency for region names and abbreviations.
- Encodes your organization/environment/location into every resource name via a single, configurable pattern.
- Keeps region data separate from code (JSON files), making updates simple and reviewable.
- Provides sensible fallbacks so future regions don’t break your pipeline.

## Usage

Basic usage in your root module:

```hcl
module "azure_primary_region" {
    source       = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
    organization = "contoso"
    environment  = "prod"
    location     = "East US" # or "eastus"
}

# Use the generated prefix in resource names
resource "azurerm_resource_group" "rg" {
    name     = module.azure_primary_region.prefix.resource_group.name
    location = module.azure_primary_region.location
}
```

Override the suffix pattern:

```hcl
module "azure_primary_region" {
    source             = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
    organization       = "contoso"
    environment        = "dev"
    location           = "westeurope"
    name_suffix_pattern = "{org}-{env}-{loc}" # e.g., contoso-dev-weu
}
```

Use programmatic region names everywhere (also supported):

```hcl
module "azure_primary_region" {
    source       = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
    organization = "contoso"
    environment  = "stage"
    location     = "japaneast"
}
```

Optional: define a secondary region using a second module instance that automatically uses the Azure Region Pair that matches the primary region:

```hcl
module "azure_secondary_region" {
    source       = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
    organizaton = module.azure_primary_region.organization
    environment = module.azure_primary_region.environment
    location    = module.azure_primary_region.secondary_location
}
```

## Inputs

- `organization` (string, required): Your org or business unit identifier (e.g., `contoso`).
- `environment` (string, required): Your environment identifier (e.g., `dev`, `test`, `prod`).
- `location` (string, required): Azure region, either display name (e.g., `East US`) or programmatic short name (e.g., `eastus`).
- `name_suffix_pattern` (string, optional, default `{org}-{loc}-{env}`): Pattern for the suffix. Placeholders:
    - `{org}` -> `var.organization`
    - `{env}` -> `var.environment`
    - `{loc}` -> Region abbreviation (e.g., `eus`, `weu`, etc.)

## Outputs

- `base_suffix` (string): The computed suffix using your pattern (e.g., `contoso-eus-prod`).
- `prefix` (string): The naming prefix returned from the Azure naming module with your suffix applied.
- `organization` (string): Passthrough of `var.organization`.
- `environment` (string): Passthrough of `var.environment`.
- `location` (string): Passthrough of `var.location`.
- `location_abbreviation` (string): Abbreviated region code resolved from JSON (falls back to canonical short name when missing).
- `location_secondary` (string): Canonical programmatic region name (e.g., `eastus`).

## Data-driven region lookups

Two JSON files back the region logic:

- `data/region_abbr.json`: Map of region name -> short abbreviation. Contains both display and programmatic keys, e.g.
    - `"East US": "eus"`
    - `"eastus": "eus"`

- `data/region_pair.json`: Map of region name -> canonical programmatic name, e.g.
    - `"East US": "eastus"`
    - `"eastus": "eastus"`

These are loaded in `main.tf` using `jsondecode(file(...))`. Because the data files live in the repo, updates are simple PRs with clear diffs.

## How abbreviations are chosen

Abbreviations aim to be short and readable (e.g., `eastus` -> `eus`, `westeurope` -> `weu`). If a region is missing from `region_abbr.json`, the module falls back to the canonical short name (lowercased, spaces removed), so your pipeline won’t break if a new region appears before the data file is updated.

## Keeping regions up to date

- The validation list in `variables.tf` and the JSON files track the public Azure regions. When Microsoft adds new regions, submit a PR to:
    - Add entries to `data/region_abbr.json` and `data/region_pair.json`.
    - Optionally extend the validation list in `variables.tf` (display and programmatic names).

Tip: You can confirm the latest region list using the Azure CLI:

```bash
az account list-locations -o table
```

## How the pattern enforces convention

By driving all resource names through a single suffix pattern that encodes org, environment, and location, you:

- Ensure consistent, predictable naming across all modules and teams.
- Make it easy to search and filter by environment and region in the Azure Portal or scripts.
- Reduce drift by centralizing the logic in one place (this module + JSON data files).

## Notes

- This module uses the official [Azure naming module from Microsoft](https://github.com/Azure/terraform-azurerm-naming) (`source = "Azure/naming/azurerm"`) internally to compose the Azure resource names.
- Sovereign or restricted regions aren’t included by default. If you need Azure Government or China regions, we can add a separate JSON file or a toggle.

## Contributing

Issues and PRs are welcome. For region updates, please:

- Update both `data/region_abbr.json` and `data/region_pair.json`.
- Include both display and programmatic keys.
- Add or adjust the validation list in `variables.tf` if needed.

Commit message:

add ability to override region abbreviations

README.md, after:

# Azure Region Naming Terraform Module from Build5Nines

Naming Microsoft Azure resources provisioned across multiple Azure Regions and Environment deployments is easier and more consistent with this Terraform module. It helps you:

- Normalize Azure region inputs (both display names like "East US" and programmatic names like "eastus").
- Generate a consistent location-aware name suffix (e.g., `{org}-{loc}-{env}` -> `contoso-eus-prod`).
- Use a comprehensive, data-driven map of Azure regions to abbreviations and canonical short names.
- Leverage the official Azure naming module while keeping your own opinionated suffix pattern.

This module is ideal for teams that want to set and adhere to a clear naming convention across Azure resources.

## What this module does

- Validates `var.location` against the up-to-date list of public Azure regions (both display and short names).
- Maps the region to a short, readable abbreviation (e.g., `eastus` -> `eus`) using a JSON lookup.
- Maps any input region (display or short) to the canonical programmatic name (e.g., `East US` -> `eastus`) using a JSON lookup.
- Builds a customizable location-aware suffix using `{org}`, `{loc}`, `{env}` placeholders.
- Passes that suffix into the Azure official naming module to generate a consistent `prefix` you can use on all resources.

## Why this helps with naming conventions

Consistent naming improves discoverability, governance, and automation. This module:

- Enforces consistency for region names and abbreviations.
- Encodes your organization/environment/location into every resource name via a single, configurable pattern.
- Keeps region data separate from code (JSON files), making updates simple and reviewable.
- Provides sensible fallbacks so future regions don’t break your pipeline.

## Usage

Basic usage in your root module:

```hcl
module "azure_primary_region" {
    source       = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
    organization = "contoso"
    environment  = "prod"
    location     = "East US" # or "eastus"
}

# Use the generated prefix in resource names
resource "azurerm_resource_group" "rg" {
    name     = module.azure_primary_region.prefix.resource_group.name
    location = module.azure_primary_region.location
}
```

Override the suffix pattern:

```hcl
module "azure_primary_region" {
    source             = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
    organization       = "contoso"
    environment        = "dev"
    location           = "westeurope"
    name_suffix_pattern = "{org}-{env}-{loc}" # e.g., contoso-dev-weu
}
```

Use programmatic region names everywhere (also supported):

```hcl
module "azure_primary_region" {
    source       = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
    organization = "contoso"
    environment  = "stage"
    location     = "japaneast"
}
```

Optional: define a secondary region using a second module instance that automatically uses the Azure Region Pair that matches the primary region:

```hcl
module "azure_secondary_region" {
    source       = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
    organizaton = module.azure_primary_region.organization
    environment = module.azure_primary_region.environment
    location    = module.azure_primary_region.secondary_location
}
```

## Inputs

- `organization` (string, required): Your org or business unit identifier (e.g., `contoso`).
- `environment` (string, required): Your environment identifier (e.g., `dev`, `test`, `prod`).
- `location` (string, required): Azure region, either display name (e.g., `East US`) or programmatic short name (e.g., `eastus`).
- `name_suffix_pattern` (string, optional, default `{org}-{loc}-{env}`): Pattern for the suffix. Placeholders:
    - `{org}` -> `var.organization`
    - `{env}` -> `var.environment`
    - `{loc}` -> Region abbreviation (e.g., `eus`, `weu`, etc.)

- `location_abbreviations` (map(string), optional, default `{}`): Optional map of region -> abbreviation overrides. Use this to provide custom or alternate abbreviations for regions. Keys may be the display name (e.g. `"East US"`) or the programmatic short name (e.g. `"eastus"`). Example: `{ "eastus" = "east", "westus" = "west" }`.

## Outputs

- `base_suffix` (string): The computed suffix using your pattern (e.g., `contoso-eus-prod`).
- `prefix` (string): The naming prefix returned from the Azure naming module with your suffix applied.
- `organization` (string): Passthrough of `var.organization`.
- `environment` (string): Passthrough of `var.environment`.
- `location` (string): Passthrough of `var.location`.
- `location_abbreviation` (string): Abbreviated region code resolved from JSON (falls back to canonical short name when missing).
- `location_secondary` (string): Canonical programmatic region name (e.g., `eastus`).

## Data-driven region lookups

Two JSON files back the region logic:

- `data/region_abbr.json`: Map of region name -> short abbreviation. Contains both display and programmatic keys, e.g.
    - `"East US": "eus"`
    - `"eastus": "eus"`

- `data/region_pair.json`: Map of region name -> canonical programmatic name, e.g.
    - `"East US": "eastus"`
    - `"eastus": "eastus"`

These are loaded in `main.tf` using `jsondecode(file(...))`. Because the data files live in the repo, updates are simple PRs with clear diffs.

## How abbreviations are chosen

Abbreviations aim to be short and readable (e.g., `eastus` -> `eus`, `westeurope` -> `weu`). If a region is missing from `region_abbr.json`, the module falls back to the canonical short name (lowercased, spaces removed), so your pipeline won’t break if a new region appears before the data file is updated.

## Keeping regions up to date

- The validation list in `variables.tf` and the JSON files track the public Azure regions. When Microsoft adds new regions, submit a PR to:
    - Add entries to `data/region_abbr.json` and `data/region_pair.json`.
    - Optionally extend the validation list in `variables.tf` (display and programmatic names).

Tip: You can confirm the latest region list using the Azure CLI:

```bash
az account list-locations -o table
```

## How the pattern enforces convention

By driving all resource names through a single suffix pattern that encodes org, environment, and location, you:

- Ensure consistent, predictable naming across all modules and teams.
- Make it easy to search and filter by environment and region in the Azure Portal or scripts.
- Reduce drift by centralizing the logic in one place (this module + JSON data files).

Example: override region abbreviations when you want different short codes than the defaults:

```hcl
module "azure_primary_region" {
        source                  = "github.com/Build5Nines/tf-azure-region-naming"
        organization            = "contoso"
        environment             = "prod"
        location                = "East US"
        location_abbreviations  = {
            eastus = "east"
            westus = "west"
        }
}

# The resulting `{loc}` used in `name_suffix_pattern` for `East US` will be `east` (from the override)
```

## Notes

- This module uses the official [Azure naming module from Microsoft](https://github.com/Azure/terraform-azurerm-naming) (`source = "Azure/naming/azurerm"`) internally to compose the Azure resource names.
- Sovereign or restricted regions aren’t included by default. If you need Azure Government or China regions, we can add a separate JSON file or a toggle.

## Contributing

Issues and PRs are welcome. For region updates, please:

- Update both `data/region_abbr.json` and `data/region_pair.json`.
- Include both display and programmatic keys.
- Add or adjust the validation list in `variables.tf` if needed.
